1.	Interview Questions
a)	Tell me about yourself.
My name is Mark Daniels. I’m a data analyst with 
a great passion for discovering and visualizing 
the opportunities and also the business challenges
that I find in data.

I have always had an interest in making sense of 
all the data that is accumulated within 
organizations, building hypothesis, then testing 
and drawing conclusions that help make meaningful 
improvements in decision making.

Working as a Power BI Developer assisting report 
developers gave me insight into some of the 
challenges Operations Managers, Financial Managers, 
and Senior Data Analysts face, but I wanted to 
dive deeper for a more comprehensive understanding 
of these relationships within the data and how 
they affect each other, and then, visualize how 
that affects the outcomes of an organization.
Now, I am looking for a role which allows me to 
analyze data at a deeper level toward enhancing 
decision making and better outcomes, while also 
using my skills in solving problems, creating 
dashboards, and helping others.

b)	What are your strengths?
I am insightful in the sense that I typically 
strive to move past appearances and get to the 
heart of things. This has been particularly 
helpful to me in this work as an analyst and 
developer.

When I believe that something is correct, I 
can be pretty compelling and have the ability 
to persuade others when I’m convicted of 
something.

I am passionate and tend to pursue goals with 
laser focus, especially if it’s for the greater 
good, but never at other people’s expense. I 
learned to consider how my actions affect others, 
I tend to want to make the world a better place 
to live in.

I can maintain focus on a single task for long 
periods of time. This allows me to tap a deeper 
understanding of the task at hand and uncover 
critical details that others may miss.

I do well in delivering clearly defined outcomes 
because I don’t skip steps and my plans get 
followed through. I use my training and defined 
best practices to deliver results.

c)	What do you need to improve on? 
(What are your weaknesses?)
I am a bit of perfectionist who likes to dot 
every 'i' and cross every 't.' But at times, 
I've gotten too caught up with correcting minor 
imperfections. I've learned that at a certain 
point, I need stop working on a project and move 
on. So, I will ask my peers for their opinion, 
and I’ve gotten into the habit of demanding a 
cut-off time from myself.

d)	Tell me about a project you worked on and 
what you did to make it a success.
As a Power BI Consultant on a project with the 
India branch of one of the largest food service 
providers in the, I was tasked with helping the 
Human Resources Data Analyst to improve the 
loading and efficiency of some of the reports 
that was developed by the department. I had not 
directly done anything like this before but was 
sure I could find a way to help the client.

What I found was that even though the analyst had 
10 years of experience in the field his understanding 
of how to use the Power BI program was insufficient, 
especially given the large and complex Human Resources 
data he was dealing with, but he had taken a creative 
approach to solving the problem by literally piecing a 
report together using Card visuals and text blocks. 

The problem he had was that the report had to have a 
specific design consisting of all the required metrics. 
There was no pre-existing chart that fit the required 
layout.

This is where I came into the picture, and because I 
had a similar type of requirement for another client 
of mine, I knew that I could make this a good and 
speedy success. There’s not enough time to go into the 
details of how I developed the report for the client, 
but my approach was to step out of the norm and a 
applied a solution that didn’t use any specific Power BI 
chart nor third party chart, but a solution that was 
customized for this specific purpose. There’s numerous 
techniques I used to achieve this.

Of course, the client was extremely happy because it 
literally cut the time for future report designs down 
by more than 50%. 

e)	Give me an example of a work situation that, in 
retrospect, you wish you’d handled differently. What happened?
I was working in a team on a Sales Analysis and 
Dashboard project. The project was going really well, 
we could see that we’d finish it in just a few days, 
but then I was given an assignment to help another 
developer with his project. Still, I thought, no problem, 
the first project would take a little longer to complete, 
and my team would be able to handle me not being available 
all the time. And, as fate would have it, I was asked to 
help out with a third project.

I thought that this was a really great thing working on so 
many different teams, each with a different flavor that 
wanted the skills I could provide. The one required my 
ability to figure out translating SQL code to DAX, the 
other wanted my abilities to figure out advanced DAX 
calculation, and the other wanted me to be the main 
developer on their project because the team was 
getting smaller and needed the extra help.

In the end I found that I was spread too thinly 
between the 3 teams because each project needed 
more of my time, so in the end, my teammates from 
the first project were not entirely happy with me 
being away so much of the time because they needed 
my help more than I anticipated.

Even though one of the teammates assumed the lead 
and did really well having had the opportunity to 
do so, I feel like I’ve disappointed the team and 
wasn’t really able to add as much as I envisioned 
for the project.

Since then, I’ve learned to manage requests for 
help more wisely, keeping my current project’s 
expectations and potential in mind first.

f)	What are your salary expectations?
Based on my research, I see that the average 
salary for this role is between 77000 and 99000. 
This would be the range I’m most comfortable with 
in this role. As I have mentioned, I have the 
skills to fulfill the role as Data Analyst and 
Tableau Developer and can help the company with 
innovative and creative solutions to client 
challenges in their efforts to ensure a 
significant ROI (return on investment). 
I am driven to exceed the expectations.

g)	Do you have any questions for us? 
(Have 3 questions you’d want to ask the interviewer(s) at the end of the interview.)
•	What factors do you feel are most 
important to be successful in this 
position?

•	What do you think are the major 
opportunities for this position?

•	What are some of the long-term 
strategic goals that you would 
like supported by the successful 
candidate for this position?

•	What has been your best 
experience while at this company?
























