What are Fact and Dimension Tables?

Fact and Dimension Tables are 
created and used for Data 
Warehousing which is used for 
data analysis, long term storage, 
and reporting.

Dimension Tables are a group of 
Attributes, or Descriptive 
information about a product or 
customer or thing. 

Dimension tables and fact tables 
can be arranged into different 
schemas like the star schema and 
snowflake schemas. It can be setup 
as a Slowly Changing Dimension 
that help keep track of changes. 
Dimension Tables have Candidate Keys
or Primary Keys that Fact Tables 
required in order for a Star or 
SnowFlake Schema to work correctly.

The fact table holds mainly Foreign 
Keys pointing to the primary keys of
the dimension tables plus columns 
that have a numerical value that can
be aggregated to provide meaningful 
value to a business. So even though 
a Zip code is numerical, aggregating 
Zip codes provide no meaning to a 
business and should be in a dimension 
table not the central fact table. 
But sales amounts, when aggregated 
for the day, week, month, or year, 
can provide the business with valuable 
information about how well the company
is doing.

In a recent project I worked on, 
I was involved in creating a Cube 
in an OLAP data warehouse that was 
being used for long term storage, and
maintaining the history of the company's
data. Management now wanted to progress 
to using it for data analysis, and 
business reporting.

This entailed developing a multidimentional
star schema which consisted of a fact 
table and many dimension tables.

This was a Mortgage Loan project, 
so the Dimension Tables had attributes 
like Borrower Firstname and lastname, 
email address, phone number, home address, 
and so forth. I also gave it an attribute 
key which is essentially a primary key so 
that the Fact table can have a Relationship 
with this Dimension table. The fact table 
needed a key in order to gain access to the
other Attributes.

In this same manner I developed attributes 
for the Loan Dimension, Property Dimension, 
a Time Dimension, and so forth.

My Fact Table consisted mainly of Foreign 
Key values and meaningful business centric, 
measureable data like loan values, purchase 
prices, income values, essentially values 
that could be of business use when 
aggregated.

After modelling my Fact and Dimension 
tables manually, I used SSAS to built my 
Cube, added a Time Dimension so it would 
be easier to achieve reports based on Month,
Quarter, and Year.

My Loan Dimension had a Loan Date field, 
so I use it as a Parameter for a Quarterly
Loan Report I developed using SSRS.

The power of the Star Schema, Facts, 
Dimensions, and the Cube is quite 
evident and the satisfaction gained 
after a successful project like this
is very enegizing and satisfying!




