Tell Me About Yourself

My name is Mark Daniels and I would 
describe myself as someone who is 
versatile, determined, and enjoy 
learning very much. I'm creative, 
open-minded, easygoing, and I enjoy 
working with others. I try to use all
these qualities in my professional 
life.

For the last five years I've been 
working as a Business Intelligence 
Developer, two years as a Power BI 
Developer at Guidant Global, and 
three years as a Microsoft Business 
Intelligence Developer at Cardinal 
Financial. I have gained extensive 
knowledge in the Microsoft Business 
Intelligence stack and Power BI. 
During my 5 years as a BI Developer,
I have gained solid experience 
working in the Mortgage Lending and 
Human Resource domains. 

I have gained experience working in 
an Agile Software Development Life 
Cycle and have participated in 
Sprint Planning, Sprint Review and 
Daily Scrum meetings. The experience
has helped me gain skills in problem
-solving, project presentations, 
team leading, organizing, and 
interpersonal skills. I perform well
in a highly pressurized, target 
driven environment.

I am currently working as a 
Microsoft Power BI Developer with 
Guidant Global and my current 
contracting assignment is with a UK 
based, global talent acquisition, 
and managed workforce solution 
provider, as one of the Lead Power 
BI developers. The company hires and
tracks hundreds of employees and 
candidates who are contracting in 
different States, all across the US,
monitoring the entire process end to
end, starting with requisition 
opening, tracking quality and 
quantity of submissions through 
various vendors, monitoring the 
progress through the selection 
process, tracking work orders, start
date and end date of the assignment 
and so forth.

Using Microsoft Power BI, I have 
implemented various data modeling, 
visualization and reporting 
techniques. I have loaded the data 
into Power BI from various sources 
such as Excel spreadsheet, SQL 
Server tables and performed various 
transformations using Query Editor. 
I have developed actionable Key 
Performance Indicators (KPI) such as
vendor response time, hire ratios, 
requisition fill time, etc. using 
maps, line charts, cards, ribbon 
charts, scatter plots and different 
reporting layouts from the Power BI 
Marketplace.

While developing these metrices, I 
have gained experience with DAX to 
create numerous complex calculated 
columns and measures, data modeling,
drill down hierarchies, date-slicers,
page level and report level filters. 
And also, publishing Power BI reports 
to the Power BI Services, setting up 
gateways, securities and permission 
level while sharing reports. I have 
also Incorporated new features such 
as Q&A, sync slicers, bookmarks in 
Power BI desktop.

Working as a Business Intelligence 
Developer for Cardinal Financial, I 
have gained good experience using SQL 
Server 2014 & 2017, Visual Studio 2013
& 2017. Using T-SQL, I have created 
Tables, Views, User Defined Functions,
Common Table Expressions, Temporary 
tables, Indexes, Stored Procedures, 
Triggers and so forth.

As an ETL developer I have experience 
building ETL solutions for numerous 
projects. I have worked with various 
data sources such as Object Linking 
and Embedding, Database (OLEDB), Excel,
XML, flat files such as .txt and .csv 
files. I’ve extracted and transformed 
data using various Control flow and 
Data flow components such as Execute 
SQL Task, Script task, Send Mail task,
Foreach Loop and Sequence containers.

I’ve used Transformations like the 
Conditional Split, Derived Column, 
Merge, Multicast, Lookup, Sort, Data 
Conversion, Union All, and so forth. 
For the various data destinations, I 
used the OLEDB, Excel, and Flat File 
destination transformations. I have 
applied error handling measures, 
optimized slowly running packages and 
troubleshooted failed packages. 

I have also had experience building 
reports and dashboards in SSRS such as
Drill Through, Drill Down, and 
Cascading Parametrized reports. I have
also set up daily, weekly and monthly 
Subscriptions, and Deployed SSRS 
reports to the Report Server.

I am a well-organized, highly 
motivated, a reliable team player, 
well versed with Power BI and the MS 
Business Intelligence Stack, and 
believe it essential to be a valuable 
asset to your company.
