What is the difference between REPORT 
MANAGER and REPORT SERVER:

The Report Server defines the nature of the
installation of SQL Server Reporting 
Services.

It comes in a native and Share Point mode. 
Native mode is the default and used in 80% 
of the industry. 

The Report Server database contains all 
properties, objects and metadata related 
to an SSRS unit. So, a Report Server is the
tool that works behind the Report Manager. 
It is responsible for authentication, data 
processing, rendering and delivery options.

The Report Manager gives us the capacity to
adminsiter the Report Server.

It is the web-based interface that can be 
used to access and manage SSRS reports. The
Report Manager is not available in 
SharePoint mode.

End users can run reports from Report 
Manager, create subscriptions, and publish 
their own reports if they have permission.

In a recent project I was working on I used
the Report Manager to setup users and give 
access to specific reports to the relevent 
managers and individuals who needed to view
them.

I also setup a Subscription to send to 
certain Managers on a weekly basis. They 
needed these reports first thing on a 
Monday morning and also every Friday 
morning. The Report Manager helped me to 
set these report subscriptions up for them.


The important things to remember when setting
up Subscriptions via the Report Manager is 
to make sure the specific report and it's 
children's Data Source is correctly setup 
all with the correct Credentials. Do not 
check the "try to impersonate the user..." 
box, it will test correctly but not allow 
a new Subscription to be created, unless 
you know what you're doing. If you're 
using the "Windows File Share" option 
for the Destination of the Report, make 
sure your path is in the correct Network 
format: 
"\\ComputerName\Users\Mark\Documents", 
and once again enter the correct Credentials.

So, once again, the Report Manager basically
sits on top of the Report Server as a 
graphical user interface that helps to 
manage the Report Server which does the
behind the scenes heavy lifting.

The Report Manager is where you can create
new Data Sources, Datasets, KPI's, manage 
security, schedules, company branding, 
subscriptions, and of course, your reports.

These are some of the main differences 
between the Report Manager and Report
Server.
















Name 3 of the less common Report Items and
how you used them:

The 3 less common Report Items I have used
are the Sparkline Area chart, the Image 
item, and the Meter Gauge.

Sparklines are small, simple charts that 
convey a lot of information in a little 
space, and it is used inline with text. 
There are as many types of sparklines as 
there are regular charts, with a few 
exceptions. 

The Image is a report Item that contains 
a reference to an image. The image can be 
embedded in the report, stored in a 
database or report server, or stored 
somewhere on the Web.

The Gauge Meter is a report Item that 
depicts a single value in a dataset. Its 
shape and simplicity make it easy to read,
even when it is small and inside a table 
cell.

In a recent project I worked on, the 
requirement was to have an image for each
product, repeated with each row of data. 
This was to provide an illustration of 
each product to make it more interesting 
and perhaps provide a better understanding
of the report. The Image item was useful 
for this. In another report, I used custom
green, yellow, and red icon images to 
highlight whether a customer was least 
likely to churn (green), most likely to 
churn (red), or somewhere in the middle 
(yellow). An example of churn rate is the
rate at which customers stop subscribing 
or employees leave a job, and so forth.

Part of the same report and the 
requirement to provide as many visual 
aids as necessary to their reports, I 
used the Sparkline line chart inline with
text to help in illustrating different 
trends without having the visual aid take
up too much space in the report. I found 
this to be a very easy way to make a 
point, because it helps to emphasize and 
describe the trend as the user reads the 
report.

The Gauge Meter, helped to depict a single
KPI value to clearly illustrate the most 
important measurements of the business 
success. Senior managers love to have a 
clear indication of where the successes 
are and how they compare with other 
categories, so the Gauge Meter catered 
to this requirement without taking up a 
large amount of space on the report. In 
fact when rows are sorted by this column,
it paints an inormously clear picture of 
how the business is doing as the details 
of the report is being read.

Now, even though I have not used these 3 
items on a regular basis, I have found 
them to be enormously useful. Of course 
I could have used the Indicator gauge but
with the Image item the customer wanted 
custom images and a specific look and 
feel that suited their brand more 
appropriately.

These are 3 really great tools in the 
SSRS toolkit.

